Now that we covered these basics of TypeScript,
it's time to actually dive into React and TypeScript.
And for this, we need to create a new React project
where we get this development server
and this build process which we can run
if we wanna deploy our application.
But we need a React project that is configured
to use TypeScript instead of Vanilla JavaScript,
which is the kind of React project
we used up to this point in this course.
Now the great thing is that we can still
use Create React App for that.
If you search for Create React App,
you should find the Create React App Docs here
on create-react-app.dev.
And on this page,
you find instructions on how to use Create React App,
and there, you will also find instructions
on how to integrate TypeScript for dev.
If you click on Building your App here,
you find the Adding TypeScript document.
Now, this general page structure can, of course,
change over time.
So the way you find those instructions might change,
but you can also google for Create React App TypeScript,
and that should then directly lead you
to that Adding TypeScript documentation you are looking for.
And here you can learn how you can add typescripts
to a React project that is using Create React App.
And it's, of course, easiest
if you simply start a new project
with TypeScript integration,
though you also get instructions
on how you can add TypeScript to an existing project.
Now, we will simply create a new project here though,
and therefore, I will just grab that command here.
npx create-react-app, then my project name, my app name,
and then this important --template flag
which we add on this command,
and which we then set to typescript as a value.
And that will use a special template
for creating this project
which gives us a project configured for TypeScript.
So if you grab that, we can run this command.
And here, what I'll do is I'll open a terminal
in my project here and I'll run this command,
but I'll rename this to react-ts, this project name,
and then hit enter.
And this will now create this new project,
this React TypeScript project in my existing folder here.
Now let's wait for dev to finish and then we'll continue.
Now here, it did finish.
And with that, I got this new react-ts sub folder.
And what I'll do now is I'll create another folder
in my overall project
which I'll name ts-basics, whoops, basics.
And then I'll just move that old configuration
into that ts-basics folder here.
So those files on which we worked in the previous lectures,
and I'll delete that node_modules folder there.
And now we have these two folders side by side
and it's, of course, the react-ts folder
in which we'll work now.
And for this here, I'll first of all,
cd into this react-ts folder.
And then, with npm start,
we can still bring up that development server,
just as we do it throughout the entire rest of this course.
But now, here,
we actually got our React project configured for TypeScript.
If you visit Localhost:3000,
you should still see that starting page.
This default app we get here out of the box,
but if you have a look at that source folder,
then you will notice that
instead of .js files, we have .tsx files in there.
And that indicates that we're using TypeScript
and it's .tsx instead of just .ts
because we're using this JSX syntax in there.
And if you are doing that
to avoid unnecessary complaints by your IDE,
you should be using .tsx as an extension
if you're using JSX in those files.
And I've written that it's basically
just the same code we saw before in this course.
There is really nothing special about that.
Now, one important word about that dev server,
which we started here again,
this works as we're used to,
but of course keep in mind
that it's now doing one more thing behind the scenes.
It's actually compiling our TypeScript code
to JavaScript code, which then is taken an optimized fervor.
Before with just React and Vanilla JavaScript,
we just had this dev server,
which takes our JavaScript code,
bundles all the files together,
and provides certain optimization steps.
Now we still have all of that, but in addition,
we have that extra TypeScript
to JavaScript compilation step,
which also takes place behind the scenes.
So we don't need to convert our TypeScript files manually
to JavaScript here.
We don't need to compile them manually
or call the compiler manually
that happens behind the scenes.
It would also happen automatically if you build your code
for production by running npm run build.
That's just a little side note,
which I wanted to add here.
Now before we dive into that code and clean it up a bit,
I wanna talk about our dependencies
in the package.json file though.
In there, we generally got the same dependencies
as before react and react-dom and react-scripts,
but we also see a couple of extra dependencies.
Specifically, we find typescript in there
and also these types dependencies.
Now typescript, of course,
is the language to compiler for TypeScript
which is installed into this project,
so that we can use TypeScript in this project.
That's also what we had in this ts-basics part
we worked on in the last lectures,
there we also installed TypeScript.
But we now also have these extra types packages,
and these are important packages.
These @types packages act as translation bridges
between Vanilla JavaScript libraries
and TypeScript projects.
So for example, we're using react and react-dom
as libraries in this project,
and these two libraries are, of course,
written for just JavaScript.
After all we worked with react and react-dom
throughout this entire course with just JavaScript.
Now, in order to also work with them in TypeScript
and get great TypeScript and IDE support,
great auto completion, and so on,
we need translations
between these raw Vanilla JavaScript libraries,
which are written for JavaScript,
and the TypeScript project.
So extra type annotations that are added
to these JavaScript libraries, you could say.
And that's what @types/react
and @types/react-dom provides.
Not all libraries need such translations
because some libraries
actually already have built-in type annotations,
even if you can use them with just JavaScript as well.
But some libraries do need these extra annotations,
and that's why here we got some extra annotations.
Now with that, we can leave that.
And with that, we can now dive into writing
some React code with TypeScript.